Security advisories fixed in version 26 (#1080)
bitcoin-core/bitcoincore.org: _posts/en/posts/2024-11-05-cb-stall-hindering-propagation.md

---
title: Disclosure of hindered block propagation due to stalling peers
name: blog-disclose-stalling-peers-hindering-propagation
id: en-blog-disclose-stalling-peers-hindering-propagation
lang: en
type: advisory
layout: post

## If this is a new post, reset this counter to 1.
version: 1

## Only true if release announcement or security announcement. English posts only
announcement: 1

excerpt: >
    A peer could hinder block propagation by announcing blocks first and then simply withholding the block.
---

Before Bitcoin Core v25.1, an attacker can cause a node to not
download the latest block.

This issue is considered **Medium** severity.

## Details

When receiving a new block announcement via a headers or compact
blocks message, the delivering peer is requested either the full
block or missing transaction details by the receiving node. If
the announcing peer then doesn't respond as the peer to peer
protocol requires, the affected Bitcoin Core node will wait
up to 10 minutes before disconnecting the peer and another
block download attempt is made. If the attacker is able to
make multiple incoming or outgoing connections, this process
can be repeated.

> This can cause network degradation with network convergence
> slowdown, making mining payouts less fair, and can cause
> liveliness issues.

Reviewer: How about:

```suggestion
Delaying block delivery can cause network degradation by slowing down network convergence,
making mining payouts less fair, and causing
liveliness issues.
```

Author: sure

> This issue was further exacerbated by other issues [disclosed recently](https://bitcoincore.org/en/2024/10/08/disclose-large-inv-to-send/), when mempools were relatively heterogeneous, disallowing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue was exacerbated if it occurred in conjunction with the recently disclosed [inventory build-up](https://bitcoincore.org/en/2024/10/08/disclose-large-inv-to-send/), when mempools were relatively heterogeneous, disallowing
```

Reviewer 2: fwiw it's not just that issue, per se, but any issue that results in unsynced mempools.

Author: Went with:
```diff
diff --git a/_posts/en/posts/2024-11-05-cb-stall-hindering-propagation.md b/_posts/en/posts/2024-11-05-cb-stall-hindering-propagation.md
index 0323339..e144662 100644
--- a/_posts/en/posts/2024-11-05-cb-stall-hindering-propagation.md
+++ b/_posts/en/posts/2024-11-05-cb-stall-hindering-propagation.md
@@ -36,7 +36,9 @@ can be repeated.
 Delaying block delivery can cause network degradation by slowing down network convergence,
 making mining payouts less fair, and causing liveliness issues.
 
-This issue was further exacerbated by other issues [disclosed recently](https://bitcoincore.org/en/2024/10/08/disclose-large-inv-to-send/), when mempools were relatively heterogeneous, disallowing
+This issue was further exacerbated by other issues disclosed recently (for
+instance the [inventory build-up](https://bitcoincore.org/en/2024/10/08/disclose-large-inv-to-send/)),
+when mempools were relatively heterogeneous, disallowing
 opportunistic reconstruction of compact blocks by honest peers.
 
 A mitigation was introduced in [#27626](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/27626),
```
